we're done
thank you very much I think there's
gonna be a very important conference and
I'll get to that toward the middle but I
have a few things to report and want to
thank you all for being here and I have
to say I think with social distancing
that the media has been much nicer I
don't know what it is all these empty
please
in-between chairs we probably shouldn't
have anybody sitting behind you either
you know I should probably go back but I
love it it's so much nicer but I
shouldn't say that because you'll get me
now thank you all for being here
and we continue our relentless effort to
defeat the Chinese virus before I begin
I want to start by announcing that today
we are bringing home another American
citizen it was a big thing very big
Amer hey Cory is on his way back to the
United States after being imprisoned in
Lebanon since September of 2019 he's
battling late-stage cancer mr. Hikari
will now be able to receive the much
needed care and treatment in the United
States we've been working very hard to
get him freed then he's finally able to
have his entire family at his side so
I'm very grateful to the Lebanese
government they worked with us and we
are very proud of his family they stood
by him so strongly and they are thrilled
the United States has no higher priority
than the safety and well-being of our
citizens we've gotten a tremendous
number of hostages out as you know I
think we're 42 and oh and Robert O'Brien
as you know was chief negotiator for a
large part of it in fact did so well
that now we have him in a different
position so I want to thank and
congratulate Robert and his team and I
want to let everyone know that
recovering Americans held captive and
imprisoned abroad continues to be a top
priority for my administration
we have one young gentleman Austin Tice
and we're working very hard with Syria
to get him out we hope the Syrian
government will do that counting on them
to do that we've written a letter just
recently but he's been there for a long
time and was captured long ago Austin
Tice his mother's probably watching and
she's a great lady and we're doing the
best we can
so Syria please work with us and we
would appreciate your letting them out
of you think about what we've done we've
gotten rid of the Isis Caliphate in
Syria we've done a lot for Syria we have
to see if they're going to do this so it
would be very much appreciated if they
would let Austin Tice out immediately as
you know my administration is working
every day to protect American people and
the American economy from the virus
yesterday I signed into law a critical
support for American workers families
and small businesses big thing we're
providing sick leave and family medical
leave to those affected by the virus and
more health is on the way as we speak
our entire team headed by secretary
minuchin is on the hill we're working
with Democrats and Republicans and
there's a lot of goodwill going on this
was something that happened that was
some people would say an act of God I
don't view it as an act of God I would
view it as something that just surprised
the whole world and if people would have
known about it
it could have stopped been stopped in
place it could have been stopped right
where it came from China if we would
have known about it if they would have
known about it
but now the whole world almost is
inflicted with this horrible
with this horrible virus and it's too
bad it's too bad because we never had an
economy as good as the economy we had
just a few weeks ago but we'll be back
and I actually think we'll be back
stronger than ever before because we
learned a lot during this period of time
I also just invoked the defense
production act to help facilitate
distribution of essential supplies if
necessary we're working with Congress to
provide major additional relief to the
workers small businesses and the hardest
hit industries we want to make sure that
everybody is able to continue on so that
when we recover all of these companies
and these great businesses both very
very small and very very large they're
not going to be broken up and you'd have
to put them back together that would
take a long time because we really
believe in I believe in the V curve I
believe it's gonna go when this is when
this is defeated this hidden scourge is
defeated I think we're gonna go up very
rapidly our economy and get back to
where it was and beyond today I want to
share with you exciting progress that
the FDA is making with the private
sector as we slash red tape like nobody
has ever done it before somebody was on
yesterday or one of the networks and
said that there's never been a president
even close that's been able to do what
I've done in slashing all of the red
tape and everything to get very
important things to the market medical
so we slash red tape to develop vaccines
and therapies as fast as it can possibly
be done long before anybody else was
even thinking about doing this and as
you know earlier this week we began the
first clinical trial of a vaccine
candidate for the virus and that was
launched in record time it was just a
few weeks and that would have taken
years to do not so long ago as we race
to develop a vaccine we're also pursuing
antiviral therapies and that's what
really we're going to be talking to you
about today that's the purpose of being
up here today and to me that's even more
important
seen by its nature you have to have long
tests because you have to make sure what
goes into somebody's body is not going
to do destruction do bad things so you
need long tests and they're doing great
with the vaccines but it's still a long
process but the therapies are something
we can move on much faster potentially
and the treatments that we'll be able to
reduce the severity or duration of the
symptoms and make people better
essentially was looking at things to
make people better or at the very
earliest stages they wouldn't even know
they had it and that's where I believe
it's going to work even the best the FDA
Commissioner Stephen on who's with us is
fantastic and he's been working 24 hours
a day he's been he's worked like
probably as hard or harder than anybody
in this in the group other than maybe
Mike Pence or me and what the FDA is
doing is incredible they've done things
in times that were not even thinkable
and I've directed the FDA to eliminate
outdated rules and bureaucracy so this
work can proceed rapidly quickly and I
mean vast and we have to remove every
barrier there are a lot of barriers that
were unnecessary and they've done that
to get the rapid deployment of safe
effective treatments and we think we
have some good answers we'll find out
very very soon clinical trials are
already underway for many new therapies
and we're working on scaling these to
allow many more Americans to access
different drugs that have shown really
good promise that on really good promise
we will do so in a way that lets us
continue to collect good data to know
which medicine
are safe and which medicines are working
the best we have a couple that where
we're in really good shape on and that's
for immediate delivery immediate like as
fast as we can get it the fda has also
approved compassionate use for a
significant number of patients you know
what that means we're also reviewing
drugs that are approved abroad or drugs
approved here for other uses and you
know one of the things that I'm most
proud of that I got was right to try
that's where somebody who's ill somebody
who's very sick terminally ill usually
in past administrations we signed us a
year and a half ago you wouldn't be able
to even think about getting any of the
drugs that may be showing great promise
now and they've been trying for many
decades to get this approved and it
sounds simple but it's not because
there's liability involved and lots of
other things and I was able to get it
approved working with Congress right to
try this is beyond right to try what
we're talking about today is beyond
right to try the right to try a spin by
the way tremendous success people are
living now that had no chance of living
where we take treatments that would have
things that that would have to go
through years of a process and if
somebody was terminally ill and I would
say why wouldn't they be able to try
this they'd go to Asia they go to Europe
they go all over the world to try and
find something or some people have they
had no money we go home to die they go
home to die they had no hope right to
try has been an incredible success but
this is beyond right to try if treatment
is known to be safe in Europe Japan or
other nations are effective against the
virus will use that information to
protect the health and safety of
American people nothing will stand in
our way as we pursue any avenue to find
what best works against this horrible
virus now a drug called chloroquine
and some people would add to it hydroxy
hydroxychloroquine mr. chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine now this is a common
malaria drug it's also a drug used for
strong rightist somebody has pretty
serious arthritis also uses this in a
somewhat different form but it is known
as a malaria drug and it's been around
for a long time and it's very powerful
but the nice part is it's been around
for a long time
so we know that if it if if things don't
go as planned it's not going to kill
anybody when you go with a brand new
drug you don't know that that's gonna
happen you have to see and you have to
go long tests but this has been used in
different forms very powerful drug in
different forms and it's shown very
encouraging very very encouraging early
results and we're going to be able to
make that drug available almost
immediately and that's where the FD has
been so great they they've gone through
the approval process it's been approved
and they did it they took it down from
many many months to immediate so we're
gonna be able to make that drug
available by prescription or States I
spoke with Governor Cuomo about it at
great length last night and he he wants
to be right on on the he wants to be
first on the line and so I think that's
a tremendous is tremendous promise based
on the results and other tests this
tremendous promise and normally the FDA
would take a long time to approve
something like that and it's it was
approved very very quickly and it's now
approved by prescription individual
states will handle it they can handle it
doctors will handle it
and I think it's gonna be I think it's
gonna be great
then we're quickly studying this drug
and while we're continuing to study it
but the studying is going to be also
done in as it's given out to large
groups of people perhaps in New York and
other places will study if they're there
are promising therapies produced by
Gilead and that's REM deucer voir REM
d'Ivoire and that's a drug used for
other purposes that's been out and said
very good results for other purposes but
it seems to have a very good result
having to do with this virus and that
drug also has been approved or very
close to approved in that case by the
FDA and I can't tell you how much we
appreciate what the FDA these people are
incredible Patriots and the job that
Stephen Han is doing dr. Han was one of
the most respected doctors in the
country by the way well we took him I
said you sure you want to do this now we
didn't know that this was going to be in
the playlist what happened here but he
really has stepped up to the plate
wherever you are words shake his head
but I'm not supposed to do that getting
a lot of trouble if I did but he's been
fantastic and I thank you doctor he's
gonna speak right after I'm finished so
Regeneron again and some is a company
that's done fantastically well as I
understand with Ebola and some other
things great company and they're looking
at some very promising events also so
you have rimmed Esav voir and you have
cleric wind and i dro hydroxychloroquine
so those are two that are out now
essentially approved for prescribe use
and I think it's going to be very
exciting I think it could be
a game changer and maybe not and maybe
not but I think it could be based on
what I see it could be a game changer
very powerful they're very powerful
so I want every American to know that
we're doing everything we can and these
actions are important next steps I mean
for the FDA to act the way they acted
with this kind of speed is an incredible
thing normally they'd say well we could
have it by next year or we could have it
by in two years from now you understand
this is the way normally it's like years
and years and years they had it
immediately based on the fact that it's
been used for other things totally
unrelated things we believe these
therapeutics and others under evaluation
right now will be able to provide relief
to many Americans we really hope that's
going to be this could be a tremendous
breakthrough tremendous breakthrough and
we will work toward a much needed to
vaccine in the future as I said and what
we're doing with the FDA is so exciting
in so many other fields so many things
are happening it's a very exciting time
for for medicine and we appreciate that
the American public has pulled together
they're really staying home and I think
there's tremendous spirit in this
country right now it's spirit like a lot
of people have not seen people have not
seen anything like it
for a long time and that means
democrat-republican
they're pulling together I hope
everything's going good in the hill
maybe I shouldn't say this until I check
out what's going on because you never
know but but I think there's a great
spirit where the Democrats the
Republicans and everybody else they're
getting together and they're trying to
get things done but most importantly the
American public has been incredible we
took the best economy we've ever had and
we said stop you can't work you have to
stay home you know there's never been a
case like this normally you pay a lot of
money to get things going here's a case
we were paying a lot of money to stop
things because we don't want people to
be together so that this virus doesn't
continue onward so there's never been
anything like this in history there's
never been a nobody's ever seen anything
like this but we're doing the right
thing we have to get rid of in our big
war is not a it's not a financial war
it's a war and it's a medical war we
have to win this war it's very important
with that I'd like to just introduce dr.
Stephen Hahn and he again I'd like to
send back with Stephen our thanks to all
of the people working in the FDA who are
fantastic talented people we appreciate
it very much everything you've done
especially the speed that you got these
two elements these two very important
drugs passed thank you very much thank
you mr. president I want to thank you
for your leadership during this corona
virus outbreak and thank you for the
kind words about the FDA staff we have
10,000 scientists doctors and others and
more than that working around the clock
to aid the American people in this fight
against the corona virus and those words
are very much appreciated sir thank you
so before the president nominated me and
I was confirmed as commissioner from
drugs that was a cancer doctor and I've
sat across from countless number of
patients and had to talk to them about
their diagnosis in their treatment and
one thing that was really important is
to provide hope I have great hope for
how we're going to come out of this
situation what's also important is not
to provide false hope but to provide
hope and as a doctor that's the way I
come to this I'm speaking now to the
American people as commissioner of food
and drugs but that part of me has not
left just look at the way the American
people have responded to our calls for
mitigation for social distancing
American people have great resiliency
and I'm so incredibly proud of how the
American people have responded as the
president mentioned he asked us to be
aggressive to break down barriers to
innovation and to accelerate the
development of life-saving treatments
and we're doing that at the FDA the FDA
is committed to continuing to provide
regulatory flexibility
guidance but let me make one thing clear
FDA's responsibility to the American
people is to ensure that products are
safe and effective and yet we are
continuing to do that our folks and
their tremendous professionals are
working day and night to do this you
just can't even imagine how much they're
working to provide the support from the
American people and I thank them since
early January long before the first
domestic case FDA began working in
collaboration with CDC I also want to
note that we stood up at incident
command group and have been focused on
the corona virus since the very
beginning of this public health
emergency this is in addition and all of
government and all America proach and
I'll describe what I mean by that in
terms of the development of therapeutics
an important part of that work is
expanding the potential therapeutic
options associated with corona virus and
we've learned from our colleagues across
the globe about this but I I want to
focus on one thing I was a cancer
researcher before all this and one thing
I know about this great country of ours
is that we have unbelievable innovators
we have people who every day it's their
job to develop treatments for all sorts
of diseases we are incredibly blessed as
a country to have this and as is true in
any illness these great American
innovators academia private sector they
have engaged us about the best possible
treatment options we are looking at
everything that's coming across our
desks as possible treatment options for
coronavirus and we're extremely
encouraged by the interest and the
promise that we've seen from these great
American innovators now again we need to
look at it
we need the data we need the information
to make the absolute best decisions for
American people but I want to assure you
we have over 17,000 people at FDA who
are doing this every day we need we need
to make sure that these the see of new
treatments will get the right drug to
the right patient at the right dosage at
the right time as an example we may have
the right drug but it may not be in the
appropriate dosage form right now and
that may do more harm than good
those are the things that that's our job
to look at and
that's why it's really important we had
these dedicated professionals looking at
these aspects of therapeutic development
at the same time we're also working
through different mechanisms to actually
get drugs into the hands of providers
and patients the president mentioned
this but one of the mechanisms called
compassionate use let me just tell you
about this if there's an experimental
drug that's potentially available a
doctor could ask for that drug to be
used in a patient we have criteria for
that and very speedy approval for that
the important thing about compassionate
use and that's what the president meant
this is even beyond right to try is that
we get to collect the information about
that because one of the things has no
promised the American people is we will
collect the data and then make the
absolute right decisions based upon
those data about the safety and efficacy
of the treatments we are working
expeditiously and we are working to make
sure that these products are as safe and
effective as they possibly can be let me
tell you about a few things that we're
currently working on and this is a plan
that was developed with many of the
people at this table are infectious
disease experts on the task force in the
short term we're looking at drugs that
are already approved for other
indications so they're already approved
as the president said for other diseases
as an example many Americans have read
studies and heard media reports about
this drug chloroquine which is an
anti-malarial drug it's already approved
as the president said for the treatment
of malaria as well as an arthritis
condition that's a drug that the
president has directed us to take a
closer look at as to whether an expanded
use approach to that could be done to
actually see if that benefits patients
and again we want to do that in the
setting of a clinical trial a large
pragmatic clinical trial to actually
gather that information and answer the
question that needs to be answered and
asked and answered let me give you
another example there's a cross-agency
effort about something called
convalescent plasma this is a pretty
exciting area and again this is
something that we have given assistance
to other countries with as this crisis
has developed so FDA's been working for
some time on this if you've been exposed
to coronavirus and you're better you
don't have the virus in your blood
we could collect the blood now this is a
possible treatment this is not a proven
treatment just want to emphasize that
collect the blood concentrate that and
have the ability once its pathogen free
that is virus free be able to give that
to other patients and the
immunoglobulins the immune response
could potentially provide a benefit to
patients it's another thing that we're
looking at over the next couple weeks
we'll have more information that we're
really pushing hard to try to accelerate
that that's in this sort of more medium
short term and that'll be a bridge to
other therapies that will take us three
to six months to develop and this is a
continuous process there is no beginning
and end to each of this this is you know
we're pushing this through the other
great thing about the great of
innovators of America some of them tell
us it's taken us years years to develop
therapies they're looking at pushing
that to the months period of time and
we're trying to provide them the
regulatory flexibility but at the same
time the scientific oversight to make
sure that gets done in the best way
possible for the American people the
president mentioned that there is a
vaccine trial currently being performed
it's a phase one trial so it's the
earliest study that gets done we expect
that to take 12 months to get to
completion to actually a time where we
could approve a vaccine but that's these
are all things to bridge to the
prevention part of this with a vaccine
it's exciting work and the president is
right this is record time for the
development of a vaccine and impressive
public-private partnership the FDA's
efforts to facilitate the development of
these products are focused on ensuring
timely access while also meeting the
agency's world respected gold standard
relying on strong data from clinical
trials to determine if an experimental
or an off-the-shelf drug that's used for
something else can safely and
effectively treat patients we want to
assure the American people that FDA is
all hands on deck as the president
mentioned these efforts and continue to
work with interested sponsors to help
expedite the work we remain steadfast in
helping to foster the development of
safe and effective therapies for koban
19 thank you
Thank You mr. president
the White House coronavirus task force
met this morning and on this very first
day of springg
we continue to make steady progress
toward president Trump's objective not
only to marshal all the resources of the
federal government every state
government every every local health
official but also to harness the power
of the American private sector and
activities over the last day reflect all
of those priorities
yesterday the president spoke with
America's top physicians and nurses and
garnered helpful insights about how we
can best serve those who are serving
Americans that are dealing with the
coronavirus we also had a productive
call with over 5,000 state and local
officials explaining the federal
government's approach and our strong and
seamless partnership with all 50 states
in the territories last night as you
heard the president side the family
first coronavirus response act which
provides free coronavirus testing paid
sick leave family leave for caregivers
and food assistance for the needy among
a broad range of benefits and today as
the president indicated we expect that
the Senate will begin work on an
economic relief package later today the
president and I will meet again in a
teleconference with the nation's
governor's we will meet at the National
Response Coordination Center at FEMA and
outline president Trump's decision to
have FEMA take the lead in our national
coronavirus response our nation's
response through FEMA will be locally
executed state managed and federally
supported on testing we want the
American people to know once again the
testing is available in all 50 states as
is becoming increasingly available
literally every hour of the day because
of the public-private partnership that
the president initiated several weeks
ago with major commercial labs I'm
pleased to receive a report today that
tens of thousands of tests are being
performed every day and with the passage
of last night's legislations
state and private labs are now required
by law to report all coronavirus testing
directly to the CDC which will give the
American public and also give our
researchers timely and important
information it's important for every
American to remember that if you don't
have symptoms you don't need to get a
test we want to make sure the testing is
available for people that are
experiencing symptoms or have a genuine
concern about having been exposed to
someone with the corona virus dr. Burks
will address county level data as well
as the progress we've made on testing
and Americans can expect to see how an
increased number of cases as our new
testing system comes online should not
be a cause of concern I shall explain
the importance of taking into account
our new testing system as new data
arrives over the next several days on
supplies a priority the president has
given to our task force we continue to
work with healthcare providers
businesses and state leadership to
identify available supplies not merely
in the federal stockpile but much more
importantly available across the private
sector we're encouraged to see companies
like Honeywell and 3m that I visited a
few short weeks ago take advantage of
the changes in the law last night that
allow the sale of industrial masks
directly to hospitals those companies
have now greatly increased by the tens
of millions their production of
so-called n95 masks that will give our
health care workers the protection that
they need to minister to those that are
dealing with the symptoms or the disease
of coronavirus I'm following the signing
of last night's bill all of those masks
now have liability protection and the
companies can sell industrial masks to
hospitals it is encouraging as we called
out yesterday to see construction
companies all across America that are as
we speak
checking their supplies and donating
those industrial masks to their local
hospitals and I know I speak on behalf
of the president who spent a lot of time
as a builder when we thank builders
across America for partnering with our
local healthcare officials
on the subject of ventilators we're
working with healthcare providers around
America and and suppliers and I'm we're
encouraged to learn that we've literally
identified tens of thousands of
ventilators that Bing can be converted
to treat patients and we remain
increasingly confident that we will have
the ventilators that we need as the
coronavirus makes its way across America
and as we said before this we're all in
this together
and before I step away and and give the
podium back to the president and to dr.
Burks I want to call every American's
attention again to the president's 15
days to slow the spread you continue to
hear one case after another one city
after another where people are putting
into practice the principles that the
president outlined this Monday and make
no mistake about it that while for the
American people as a whole the risk of
serious illness remains low these
guidelines should be practiced by every
American in every community not only to
lessen the spread of the corona virus
but to protect the most vulnerable among
us and I think Americans with their with
from their hearts are not only
practicing these principles of social
distancing and avoiding social
gatherings of more than 10 people using
drive-throughs at restaurants to protect
their own health and the health of their
family but they're also recognizing that
that no American wants to inadvertently
convey the coronavirus to someone for
whom the consequences could be quite
serious at the president's direction
will continue to marshal all the
resources of government at every level
we'll be reiterating that strong
partnership with America States this
afternoon with America's governor's
pulling all of the private sector energy
together the innovation that you just
heard described I know on this first day
of spring that we'll get through this
and we'll get through this together
thank you so I know you're watching the
data carefully you can see the dramatic
increases in the number of new cases
based on our ability to test additional
people and this will continue over the
next two to three days as we begin to
have backlogs reduced of the testing you
all have heard the antidotes of people
waiting five or six days for their test
results we are moving through all of
that as well as testing individuals I
really want to applaud the frontline
health care workers the nurses and the
doctors and the testers that have really
prioritized and the American people who
have a prioritized those with symptoms
the number of tests positive is
increasing that is a dramatically
important signature that everybody is
doing their job those with mild symptoms
are staying home self isolating those
with serious symptoms are coming forward
to getting testing our tests positive
rates are now into the ten to eleven
percent range that still means that 90%
of the illness is out there even the
severe ones are not covet nineteen I
know many of you are looking at the
state-level data still over 50% of the
cases come from three states this is why
we continue to prioritize testing in
those states in addition 50% of the
cases come from ten counties we're a
very large country with very many
counties and I just want to applaud the
local and state governments that are
implementing their emergency operation
centers and plans to ensure I want to
also really thank the healthcare workers
that have been asked to reduce all
elective surgeries medical and dental
visits this will dramatically increase
the number of ventilators that are
available in hospitals but also in
ambulatory surgical centers that can be
converted and utilized and also the to
the construction industry we are deeply
grateful the number as vice president
said the number of individuals have come
forward with their construction mask
their booties their Tyvek suits on suits
and their masks to contribute them to
the health care sector the president's
request to make this available in that
legislation changes the ability and
increases our availability immediately
by than 75 to 90 percent range because
the amount of construction use
of those elements thank you thank you
Thank You mr. president mr. vice
president huh today you heard a
wonderful announcement from the FDA and
I just want to give a shout out to Steve
dr. Hahn and the folks at the FTA we're
about where several hundred of my
commissioned Corps officers work you're
right mr. president
they are tireless they're doing things
that have never been done before to
bring the most most prudent advances to
the American people but I want to talk
about something different briefly we
know many of you are home practicing the
president's guidelines for social
distancing but one thing we should all
consider especially our Millennials in
Gen Z is donating blood as an
anesthesiologist who still practices at
Walter Reed taking care of our wounded
warriors and our soldiers I know
donated blood is an essential part of
caring for patients and one donation can
save up to three lives blood centers are
open now and in need of your donation I
want America to know that blood donation
is safe
and blood centers are taking extra
precautions at this time based on new
CDC recommendations including spacing
beds 6 feet apart disinfecting surfaces
between patient's temperature checking
staff and encouraging donors to make
appointments ahead of time so we can
space them out social distancing does
not have to mean social disengagement so
give blood today you'll feel good about
it and you'll be helping your country
and your community during this crisis
and you might even save a life
yeah switching to the the Epis to boost
the economy with the commissioners or
Congress will you guarantee that the
money the billions the tens of billions
of dollars hundreds of billions of
dollars even that's gonna go but to
these industries will not go to
executive bonuses or to more stock
buybacks well we don't want that in fact
some companies as you know did stock
buybacks and I was never happy with that
it's very hard to tell them not to but I
would tell them not to I would say I
don't like it for that reason some data
and it turned out that they could have
waited a long time it would have been
much better off if they did the
condition of the bill you could say and
not on this morning can go I'm making I
mean you know it takes many many people
in this case to tango but as far as I'm
concerned that conditions like that
would be okay with me you and the
question for dr. klahn you enabled I
guess is probably the best way to put it
the defense production act yesterday
beginning pull the trigger on it no
because we hope we're not going to need
that from the Democratic leadership pull
the trigger on wait what's the rationale
for not doing first of all governors are
supposed to be doing a lot of this work
and they are doing a lot of this work
federal government's not supposed to be
out there buying vast amounts of items
and then shipping you know we're not a
shipping clerk the governors are
supposed to be as with testing the
governor's our businesses are supposed
to be doing it will help out and will
help out wherever we can and we can buy
in volume and in some cases great volume
with the masks as an example which were
really a problem we have helped out and
they're right now millions of masks
being made but this is really for the
local governments governors and people
within the state depending on the way
they divided it up and they'll do that
and they're doing a very good job of it
where you have a problem with
ventilators we're working very hard
trying to find nobody in their wildest
dreams would have ever thought that we
need tens of thousands of ventilators
this is something that's very unique to
this to what happened
conditions would you put the defense
production act into action well if we
were desperately in need of something
and we frankly will know about that very
shortly we want to be ahead of we don't
want to do it as it happens but before
it happens we're going to know a lot
over the next two or three days we'll
know a lot any idea when REM disappear
will be available to the market and are
there any drugs in the pipeline that you
believe could qualify for a treatment
ion beam so with respect to the first
question I'm prohibited by law to
disclose confidential commercial
information what I can tell you is we're
working very closely with the company on
this and we'll have additional
information they will relatively soon
yes there are drugs in the pipeline
we're looking at everyone everyone on
this
Dyess gets calls every day as to all of
our people at the FDA about potential
therapeutic options we are looking at
every single one of them no I'm not but
we're trying to find that out this has
been going on for years many years
they've been trying to find Austin Tice
he was in Syria as you know his mother
is an incredible woman and I'm doing it
for him but I'm doing it for his mother
his brothers an incredible woman who's
desperate to find her son and I'm
confirming a lot but if he is alive if
we would like very much to get him back
quickly okay and on coronavirus speaking
of shortages of supplies the CDC has put
out guidelines for hospitals that are
dealing with a shortage of mass to use
them beyond their shelf life we use them
instead of getting new ones and in a
worst-case scenario use a bandana
instead of
masks how is that acceptable at all well
I haven't seen that but I will let Mike
answer that question I'm happy to mr.
president I just I can't emphasize
enough the incredible progress that was
made with the passage of the legislation
last night and President had me go to
Minnesota meet with 3m that manufactures
these in 95 mass a few weeks ago and we
learned of their production at that
facility of 35 million mass a month less
than five million of those were
qualified to be sold to hospitals so
President worked with Republican and
Democrat leadership we've extended the
liability protection so now that all the
industrial masks that are manufactured
as n95 s are now available to hospitals
and we're seeing a dramatic increase in
production
Honeywell alone is repurposing a factory
that was destined for Mexico to produce
another hundred and twenty million mass
per year 3m is increasing output to 420
million masks per year we really we've
put a priority at the president's
direction on making sure those that are
providing health care services to
America have the protection to keep
themselves and their families safe and
with the legislation last night with the
incredible response among these great
private-sector companies and as we
mentioned repeatedly with construction
companies around America heating the
president's call to donate their
industrial mass to hospitals is
happening all over America we know we'll
meet that need
be ready at least we start getting them
ready well as I mentioned 3m is
increasing their output 420 million a
year at production and January they make
35 million per month at that facility
and we're we're prioritizing the
distribution of those but the other
thing and we'll emphasize this with
governor's this afternoon is we're
working with governor's to make sure
that the healthcare providers the
hospitals and the clinics in their state
are placing orders now that this
tremendous increase in supply
particularly with industrial mass is now
available we're going to make sure they
understand that the supply has greatly
expanded thanks to a bipartisan
legislation and the accomplishment the
president and the response by these
companies is making more mass available
and we're going to make sure healthcare
providers are purchasing those and the
federal government will also make sure
that our stockpile is properly reflects
those increases as well they're
available now the 3m facility that I was
at told me in that in January they went
to full production on 35 million masks
the legislative change means that all 35
million of those that started to be
produced at full capacity in January can
now be sold to hospitals that's the
distinction here it's a very important
change and it's part of the way the
president has been engaging the private
sector pushing the kind of regulatory
reform and the kind of liability reform
that has greatly expanded of the
availability of mass so they're in the
marketplace now we're gonna make it
clear to governor's as we made it clear
to health care providers in conference
calls yesterday that those resources are
now there
we've vastly increased the supply of
medical mass and we're going to continue
to put a priority on making sure that
we're calling on industry at every level
calling on major suppliers that the
president met with this week to make
sure that those personal protective
equipment are there to do with the
liability to the company it had a big
problem with liability and much of it
had to do with the liability to the
thank you too for you in one for dr. Han
the American Hospital Association just
told NBC News that they need a hundred
billion dollars in order to address
shortages in equipment and other
infrastructure there you just signed two
legislative packages they say it didn't
directly give money to address this
issue why not and will you commit to me
looking at that issue directly with them
and that's a separate issue but we're
looking at that issue very directly
we're gonna do our best on it but we're
working with Democrats and Republicans
or that we're looking at that very
specifically you bottom-line people when
can Americans expect their lives to go
back to normal will that not happen
until there's a back seat I hope person
will see this is uncharted territory as
you know we think we have ideas it
doesn't help to say what the ideas I
would hope very soon we're we've pulled
together as a nation people are for the
most part doing what they're supposed to
be doing the social distancing is very
interesting a whole new term that's
become a hot it's become somewhat of a
hot term but people are listening and
they're and they're really doing a great
job this country is an amazing country I
think you're up to 141 different
countries right now so it's very
uncharted territory it could have could
have been stopped could have been
stopped pretty easily if we had known if
everybody had known about it a number of
months before people started reading
about it excuse me excuse me before we
started reading about we could have it
could have been stopped in its tracks
unfortunately they didn't decide to make
it public but the whole world is
suffering because of it
this was a pandemic it was coming so why
was the United States not prepared with
more testing we were very prepared the
only thing we weren't prepared for was
the the media the media has not treated
it fairly I'll tell you how prepared I
was I called for a band from people
coming in from China long before anybody
thought it was in fact it was your
Network
I believe they called me a racist
because I did that it was many of the
people in the room they called me racist
and other words because I did that
because I went so early so when you say
we weren't prepared had I let these tens
of thousands of people come in from
China a day we would have had something
right now that would have been you
wouldn't have even recognized it
compared to where we are how many people
have passed away how many people have
died as of this moment you could
multiply that by a factor of many many
many so when you say that I wasn't
prepared I was the first one to do the
band now other countries are following
what I did but the media doesn't
acknowledge that they know it's true
they know it's true the stage is
supposed to get it but we're helping to
say look for years they bought them and
now all of a sudden they're coming to
the federal government we're working
with the states we're working with the
governors we're working with everybody
the relationships are great one of the
things that happened this morning I
spoke with Micky Arison of Carnival
Cruise Lines and he's going to make
ships available so in addition to the
big medical ships that you have coming
if we should need ships with lots of
rooms
they'll be docked at New York and Los
Angeles and San Francisco different
places so I want to thank Mickey eros
and that's Carnival Cruise Lines
I've done it yeah if we find that we
need something that we will do that and
you don't know what we've done you don't
know whether or not we've ordered you
don't know if we've invoked it you don't
know what's been ordered what's not
there I can only tell you I can only
tell you that as an example masks nobody
ever heard of the number of mass that's
been ordered they're being made now and
many are available now but people I
think in the media probably don't know
that could you explain the gap and for
the American people and what you're
saying here today about there being tens
of thousands of tests available about
how they're being a huge amount of masks
available and what we're sitting on the
ground which is really the opposite of
that people are people are saying that
they can't get tested even when they
have symptoms people are saying that
they doctors are telling us they don't
have access to vital equipment can you
explain that that gap well I can't I
cannot explain a gap I'm hearing very
good things on the ground and we're
dealing with love they had a ramp up
they had an obsolete system and they had
a system simultaneously that was not
meant for this it wasn't meant for this
nobody knew they'd be a pandemic or an
epidemic of this proportion nobody's
ever seen anything like this before I
can tell you that what we're doing is
we're working with local governments
with states governors even mayors on
getting them to be able to get what they
need and the system is starting to work
out very well but we had a breaker
system like breaking an egg because the
system we had was obsolete and didn't
work and that was a system we inherited
and now we have something that's really
been very good and certainly going to be
great for the future too yep
mr. president there seems to be a
backlash building among congressional
Republicans and then your supporters
about a corporate bailout in particular
Senator Mike Ron said it's been hearken
back to 2008 where we're picking winners
and losers well we don't want to pick
winners and losers we want everybody to
benefit we want I think more than
anything else the workers to benefit and
sometimes for the worker to benefit you
have to go through the company because
they have thousands of workers and if
the company goes out of business no
fault of their own those workers aren't
going to be able to receive a check so
where look our ultimate goal or the
people our ultimate goal of the great
people of this country and we will have
things worked out I think that are going
to be very well it's a very complex
formula you understand that very complex
but it's working out I think it's going
to be very well I think we're gonna have
pretty uniform support for it please put
out an advisory telling Americans not to
travel overseas at all are you putting
in an overseas travel we're speaking
with the State Department later I can't
say right now because I haven't had the
meeting yet about today's announcement
if I go this background thank you so
much I wanted to ask out rent rent
severe I don't pronounce that correctly
can you tell saves it currently approved
for use on the virus so REM des aveer
and it's a drug made by Gilead that's
been in the press it is currently in
clinical trials here and around the
world we have also made it available by
that approach that I told you called
compassionate use where a doctor could
ask the FDA for that and the really
positive thing about that that gives it
rapidly to a doctor and a patient but it
allows us to collect the data because
what we really need to do is understand
what the data and science are in order
to make the appropriate decision about
safety and effectiveness so how do you
just make sure that it is safe and I
mean is there any concern at all that it
will be safe considering
it's not going through the normal
process and and could potentially cause
negative effects dr. pouchy earlier
talked about we do not want to put out
anything that could cause a negative
effects is there any concern about those
kind of things rip this drugs yeah thank
you for that question
because I just want to be clear about
this Ramez aveer is going through the
normal process we are using our internal
processes at fda to set up with the
company the protocols to actually
collect the data and you're right we
need to actually know about the safety
and the effectiveness and that's done
through the clinical trial process so
it's those data that are going to inform
the decisions that are ultimately made
about safety and efficacy this is an
unprecedented situation this is a really
significant time and one thing that with
the president's leadership fda has done
is said okay how do we approach these
extraordinary times with extraordinary
measures knowing that we have a sacred
trust with the American people about
safety and efficacy but still at the
same time enable these treatments to get
into patients and that's what we're
doing how likely is it that the 15-day
guidance that you would see will have
indications later on dr. Burks indicated
that there are three states and ten
counties if I got that right
where 50% of the cases are focused
should those areas be doing more
measures such as shelter-in-place I
think they actually are doing a lot I
mean I know New York is working very
diligently been very strong
I assume San Francisco's one of the
areas in Los Angeles and the state of
Washington obviously that's one that has
to be up there they're all working very
hard to to quarantine or words just
about the equivalent of quarantine plan
serves more government workers
moving for the government as well to
start doing more teleworking we are and
we're doing we're using the medical term
of telemedicine and it's been incredibly
busy and really you know what people
don't have to ever eat some people can't
do it anyway they can't get up they
can't see a doctor but we're using this
and it's been telehealth different names
and I will tell you that it's been
really successful it's helped a lot of
people out where they don't have to and
they can't and even from a safety reason
if they are positive they are if they
are feeling poorly they can't do it or
we don't want them transmitting anything
to anybody else on China they reported
for the first time since the outbreak no
new cases over a 24-hour period do you
have any reason to disbelieve them and
second to that the National Security
Council yesterday put out a tweet very
critical of the Chinese government
saying the Chinese Communist Party
suppress initial reports and the Chinese
virus and punish doctors and journalists
causing Chinese and international
experts to miss critical opportunities
to prevent a global pandemic could you
explain it would have much better if we
had known about this a number of months
earlier it could have been contained to
that one area in China where it started
and certainly the world is paying a big
price for what they did and the world is
paying a very big price but not for not
letting them come out everybody knows
that we all know that as far as as far
as believing what they're putting out
now I hope it's true who knows but I
hope it's true about China quite a bit
and you've been talking about the
Chinese virus how if you have heard
about this on day one and had more
information possibly you could have
stopped it the difference are you
thinking about any types of
repercussions for China and are you also
rethinking sort of the supply lines
for our manufacturing industry I don't
want to comment on that right now yeah I
have a question for you and also a
question for dr. Burks at you American
workers across the country are losing
their jobs an unprecedented rate and
you're a former economist said we could
see some of the worst job numbers ever
is the government prepared to see the
spike in unemployment no worst case
scenario you would have terrible job
numbers if we can get this thing wrapped
up and finished earlier things will go
very nicely and one of the things
they're working as you know one of the
elements that is being worked on very
much so in the hill is to keep the jobs
going so that when we do get rid of the
virus we're gonna be able to just really
I think go like a rocket I think the
economy is gonna be fantastic
know when he said that he was using that
as the ultimate bad outcome I don't
think anybody believes that's gonna
happen members of Congress are now being
tested positive for echovirus you have
almost 2,000 or so Lauren tuning do you
have any guidance for Congress should
they I know all of them and I don't know
if they're sitting like you people are
sitting you're actually sitting too
close
you should really we should probably get
rid of about another 75 80 percent of
you I'll have just two or three that I
like in this room I think that's a great
way of doing it we just we get a new way
of doing it but you're actually much too
close you know you take you should leave
immediately but but look look I know all
of them they tested positive hopefully
they're all going to get better and it's
one of those things it's Congress
so they keep going to the Hillary 9'o
somewhere they tested positive they're
in quarantine and I know Lindsey and
many others are they they didn't test it
but until they got the result they put
themselves in quarantine a number of
people in Congress right now are in
quarantine they don't know the results
when they get the result they'll leave
this stay there and get better because
people get better I mean most people are
getting better most by far the people
are you get better doesn't mean it's not
a tough one it is a tough one but now
when they many people in Congress have
felt not perfect or they met somebody
that wasn't perfect it turned out to be
positive and they've put themselves in
quarantine and I think they I think
Congress has behaved unbelievably well
in that regard
do you think a trillion dollar stimulus
we'll see what happens it depends how
long so much depends on what's going on
in this room in terms of the medical if
we can stop it in its tracks the virus
it's plenty if we can't we'll have to go
back and talk do you support the idea of
the government taking an equity stake in
certain common people are coming
people are coming in for money in some
cases no fault of their own but in some
cases where they did certain things over
the course of the years including by
buying back stock you know they bought
back stock and they paid a high price
for it as it turned out but maybe I view
that as a little bit differently than
somebody that didn't and somebody that
bill plants all over the United States
of which there were plenty of them two
airlines are Boeing or what what do you
think we will be helping the airline
industry we will be helping the cruise
ship industry we probably will be
helping the hotel industry will probably
be where jobs are created you don't want
to lose industries like this these are
incredible industries you can't lose
them so we'll be focused on many
industries and I have to say I can't
state it struggling enough we will be
helping small businesses that's where
it's complicated because
a lot of small you know that's the
engine of the of the country we will be
helping small business these will be
birds that you need to pause this one
trillion dollar stimulus package for the
economy do you expect this to slow down
the delivery of checks for American
families and are you considering any new
executive option there could be we're
looking at a couple of things that I
could do hopefully we won't need it but
we can do was there's a lot of executive
power if we don't have to use it that
would be a good thing not a bad thing
yeah please Thank You mr. president one
for you and potentially as well right
now the economy is essentially ground to
a halt thanks for telling us stores of
clothes Travel has slowed down go ahead
what's the rush deflation we know that
everybody in the room knows it the
question is how long should those who
are either not working right now or
business owners who have to make
critical decisions how long should they
expect the state of affairs as it stands
at this moment to play out and for for
the doctors behind you'll be able to
tell you that very I think in the near
future we'll see where we're going
you're gonna see numbers you've seen the
graphs you're gonna see numbers and
we'll be able to let you know I will say
that the American public has been
incredible for the most part not at all
cases but for the most part so you'll be
able to see what's happening over the
net as we say we had a 15-day period
you'll be able to tell a lot in a week
or so not everything but we'll be able
to see over a period of time and for all
the parents that are home right now this
is a question for dr. burns or dr. Adams
who are caring for their children and
are curious as to when my kids be able
to go back to school what do you think
is a realistic timeline well I think you
know most of all of those decisions are
made at the state and local government
level and each state and local
government has handled it differently
that's why we put out from the president
federal federal presidential guidance to
every single person about what we think
is important for the next two weeks and
as we look at that data we'll be able to
see at
it's having an impact I think you've all
seen the modeling studies those were
driven by the modeling studies showing
that you add these things together they
have a bigger impact than separately and
so those are part of the decision-making
we had a whole group of modelers in
yesterday they're compositing all the
data together to look at this carefully
because everyone has those same
questions of what the impact will be and
what pieces could essentially be removed
and you still have the same level of
impact in decreasing the spread of the
virus the absolute key to this though is
every single American looking at the
president guidelines and taking it
seriously the acts of selflessness that
I am seeing are so impressive across the
board but if even 10 or 15 percent of
the population decides that what they're
doing today is more important than the
health and welfare of the rest of the
Americans they can spread the virus in a
very strong way because you know the
level of contagion I have to say if
chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine works
or any of the other things that they're
looking at that are not quite as far out
but if they work your numbers are going
to come down very rapidly so we'll see
what happens but there's a real chance
they might in gorging demonstration and
just yesterday presidents from Brazil
said and we should not be surprised if
we see him in the next few days in a
crowded subway in Sao Paulo or in a bus
in Rio because he is the president it
should view the people what do you think
about that what is your message well
he's a friend of mine number one and
number two we had dinner the other night
and everybody said he was positive and
he wasn't positive he tested negative so
that was I I was quite happy when I
heard that but I have no message for a
mother than he's doing a good job in
Brazil a good job in Brazil he's very
popular
raishin at these moments I can't tell
you about that I don't know about that I
have not heard that he's doing a very
good job Brazil was very troubled before
he got there and he's the people loved
him and popular I think he's doing a
very good job there are Americans who
were travelling abroad or essentially
stopped unable to come home we spoke to
a parade ten women who Americans to
where well we spoke to ten American
women who were in Morocco for instance
all the flights have been canceled their
hotel is shutting down they literally
have no place to stay and no way to get
home they are asking you they're asking
the administration the US government for
help what can be done we know about it
we have groups we have a group of young
people in in Peru and we're working on
taking care of that with the military
yeah we're looking to take no not
evacuation would we're trying to get
them out and you know they got caught
they were late with their flights we
gave them a period of time they didn't
make it but we're looking to get them
out with military probably through the
military we have a group of young young
people I think young men or young people
could be women also with them from
Alabama the great state of Alabama and
they're in Peru and we're working on
that right now trying to get them out
it's a large group it's about 300 well
we're gonna work it out Jeff - president
- sort of foreign policy related
questions and your talk with the g7
leaders earlier this week did you
discuss together ending or postponing
the Olympics yeah we discuss it as you
know Prime Minister Abbey was on the
call and that's a big decision for him
and we don't know what his decision is
but we'd live with his decision it's a
tough situation they've done an
incredible job
Japan has done an incredible job when
building the venues getting them built
you know you've seen so many Olympic
venues that have been a disaster over
the years where they cost five times
more than they were supposed to they
weren't ready in time Japan has been
just the opposite they built it
beautifully they built it for what it
was supposed to be built for but then he
got hit with
same thing that the rest of the world
got it with unexpectedly he has he has
told us that he has not made a decision
as to what to do so on foreign policy
have you spoken to the leaders of Saudi
Arabia or Russia and encouraged them to
stop this glut of oil that is detected
in the market well the one thing I will
tell you is that from the standpoint you
always get a little bit torn because you
know until we became the leading
producer I was always for the person
driving the car and filling up the tank
of gas and you'd have gasoline and the
prices were if they were too high I
would always raise hell with OPEC and I
was always somebody that liked saying I
never thought I'd see 22 and 24 and 28
dollars a barrel but that's what we have
and in one way our consumer is very much
helped it's like it's like a massive tax
increase that's bigger than any tax
increase decreased that you could give
you know we can give all these big tax
cuts but they're paying so little for
gasoline but on the other hand it hurts
the great industry and a very powerful
industry so I spoke with numerous people
that have a lot to do with it and we
have a lot of power over the situation
and we're trying to find some kind of a
medium ground you know it's it's very
devastating to Russia because when you
look I mean the whole economy is based
on that and they have we have the lowest
oil prices in decades so it's very
devastating to Russia I would say it's
very bad for Saudi Arabia but they were
in a fight they were in a fight on price
they were to fight on output and at the
at the appropriate time I'll get
involved you know cruise ships be used
for well Mickey called up and he said if
you need them and we haven't said yes
I'll call Governor Cuomo I'll I'll call
Gavin from gavin newsom governor from
california i'll call a few of the other
governors they're gonna bring it up
today because we're meeting through
phone through telephone telephonically
as they say in a little while at FEMA
I'm going over FEMA from here
well you can increase places to stay
let's say places to stay if it works I
mean you know I don't know maybe people
won't want him but he made the offer was
a very generous offer and he said that
he has some ships that would be ideally
suited for what we're doing and
certainly they have a lot of rooms
they're big and they have a lot of rooms
so we appreciate it from Carnival you're
talking about not needing it right now
if you're not showing any symptoms but a
lot of meeting the tests are only
getting tested if you're showing
symptoms but a lot of this well you
should only good we should I didn't have
any symptoms that I got a test but I got
a test because you people were driving
everybody crazy so that's the only
reason I had no symptoms but I had a
test and my doctor told me don't get it
you don't need it everybody said you
don't need it but I had to do it because
the press was going crazy and then after
I got it they said you shouldn't have
gotten it you had no symptoms you know
the whole thing so in other words if you
get it it was no good but that's I'm a
unique case unfortunately but no people
that don't show symptoms and people that
have doctors that say they shouldn't get
it I would rely on that yeah I would
racist because it's food that originates
in China or it has to no I don't think
it's racist I don't think it's racist at
all
on that note major left-wing news media
even in this room have teamed up with
Chinese Communist Party narratives and
they're claiming you are racist for
making these claims about Chinese parts
is it a little mate that major media
players just how close you are
consistently siding with foreign State
College and Islamic radicals some Latin
gangs and cartels and they work right
here at the White House with direct
access to you and your team it amazes me
when I read the things that I read it
amazes me when I read The Wall Street
Journal which is always so negative it
amazes me when I read the New York Times
is not even I don't i barely read it you
know we don't distribute it in the white
house anymore in the same thing with the
washington post because you see i know
the truth and people out there in the
world they really don't know that they
don't know what it is they use different
slogans and different concepts for me
almost every week trying to catch
something last week it was all chaos you
see me there's no k I said no chaos I'm
the one telling everybody to be calm
there's no chaos at the White House we
have unbelievable professionals it's
really I mean I think I came up with the
term I hope I came up with the term but
it is fake news it's more than fakeness
it's corruptness they write stories
without calling anybody they write a
story today I had a couple of stories
where they never call me ever that I
know of at least nobody tells me they'll
write a story about me without even
asking my opinion on something it's
totally fake I've never seen I mean
there is a story in the Wall Street
Journal today about you know about how
we've done we've done a phenomenal job
on this the governor's David even Gavin
Newsom who you know I'm usually fighting
with over the fires and I think you
should do a different kind of a job at
the in the forests and lots of things
we've we argue a lot but Gavin Newsom
has been very very generous generous
Andrew Cuomo has been really very
generous I mean they're saying we're
doing a great job and everybody's saying
but then you read this faint phony story
in the Wall Street Journal or with the
Washington Post is going wild lately I
don't know what happened to them I guess
something happened like we don't call
them back or whatever but the Washington
Post these are very dishonest media
sources they're very dishonest and you
know what someday hopefully in five
years I won't be here and that'll be
fine I will have done I think a great
job because I don't think anyone's done
as much in three and a half years as
I've done I don't think and the
administration this administration has
done a great job but the press is very
dishonest well I think they do I mean I
mean they are siding with they are
siding with China they are doing things
that they shouldn't be doing deciding
with many others China is the least of
it so why why they're doing this you'll
have to ask them but if we had an honest
media in this country our country would
be an even greater place so ladies and
gentlemen thank you very much we are
very excited about we are very excited
about in specifically what we talked
about with the chloroquine I think the I
think it could be something really
incredible it could totally depress the
times that we had mentioned wait excuse
me excuse me it could totally depressed
anymore a positive effect maybe not very
but maybe maybe positive I think it's to
me very very exciting and the beauty is
I think I can say this Steve the beauty
is that these drugs have been out there
so the really danger part of the drugs
especially
chloroquine it's been out there for
years so we know it's something that can
be taken safely so it's very important
go ahead president has asked us to
expedite this and what I want to assure
you because of the questions that were
asked we want to make sure that this is
done well and right for the American
people the president is right with an
off-the-shelf drug we do have a lot of
information about the side effects of
the drug so that really helps in terms
of expediting but but I want to show you
that we're working as quickly as we can
I don't want to speculate about a
timeline at this point with respect to
vaccines that's in phase one trial as I
mentioned we're expecting that to
proceed moving forward and we're working
with a number of different other
companies about vaccine development is
it possible phase 2 and phase 3 can be
fast-tracked that we might see a vaccine
before that you're you this is a
terrific question and we are really
trying hard at FDA to partner with great
industry great academic partners to do
exactly that
no promises can be made but one thing
that we're doing is really working hard
to fast-track as much as possible and
they have other times to meet will be
meeting hopefully not for very long I
mean I would like to see this get
cleared up and we think we've to me this
was a very important conference because
I really think there's great potential
here and a lot of people are going to be
trying it soon like literally very soon
literally in a matter of days if not
sooner in some cases it's already being
experimented with and there's been some
very good results we'll see what happens
but if if we can be even partially right
maybe we'll be fully right but even
partially right on it this whole subject
becomes a much more pleasant subject so
thank you all and we'll we're going over
to FEMA now so I don't know who's going
but we're going to FEMA we're going to
be discussing with the governor's or
lots of other
now what I think that's enough